The Project Gutenberg EBook of Technical School, Sioux Falls Army Air Field, by 
Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Technical School, Sioux Falls Army Air Field

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: December 27, 2019 [EBook #61030]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TECH. SCHOOL, SIOUX FALLS ARMY AIR FIELD ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Kenneth R. Black and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           _Technical School_
                              Sioux Falls
                             Army Air Field


                       SIOUX FALLS, SOUTH DAKOTA




                   TO NEWCOMERS IN TECHNICAL SCHOOL:


This handbook contains information about the Technical School, Sioux
Falls Army Air Field, Sioux Falls, S. D., and its many services for the
school personnel, including telephone service. Also, there is a map of
Sioux Falls and city information which may be helpful to you.

I am here at the School to help you get the best telephone service that
is possible under difficult wartime conditions. Telephone lines are
crowded as never before and the materials required to build more lines
are going into military equipment and munitions. We will do our best for
you with the lines and equipment available.

You can recognize me by the badge with the Blue Bell. If I can help you,
just hail me.
                                                              Sincerely,
                                                    R. W. “Bob” Anderson
                                                  Camp Telephone Manager
                                         NORTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.

  Property of:

  In case of emergency notify

  Telephone No.

                          BELL SYSTEM SERVICE




                         HISTORICAL BACKGROUND


    [Illustration: {Indian camp}]

Sioux Falls, largest city in South Dakota, is located at the falls of
the Sioux river, named after the warlike Sioux Indians and called by
them “Te-han-kas-an-data” or “Thickly-wooded-river.”

White men found this part of the country occupied by the Dakotas, the
most powerful member of the great Sioux family. Here these hard-riding,
hard-fighting Indians hunted buffalo and battled intruders. Sitting Bull
and Crazy Horse were among their great war chiefs; Custer’s Massacre is
their best known victory over the white men.

Sioux Falls was first settled in 1857, but after the Sioux Massacre in
southern Minnesota in 1862, it was abandoned until 1865 when Fort Dakota
was established at this site. The present city dates from the coming of
the soldiers who afforded protection for pioneer settlers.

The Technical School, Sioux Falls Army Air Field, adjoins the residence
part of Sioux Falls on the northwest. Started in the summer of 1942, it
is one of the largest training schools of its kind anywhere.




                      TECHNICAL SCHOOL INFORMATION


POST HEADQUARTERS—Post Headquarters is only a short distance from the
entrance at Gate No. 1, and is easily recognized by means of the large
flag pole in front. Here are the offices of the Commanding Officer,
Executive Officer and Adjutant, as well as S-1, S-2, S-3, S-4, Message
Center, and Administrative Inspector.

BUILDING NO. 2—Situated next to Post Headquarters, this building houses
the Post Judge Advocate, Classification, Legal Aid Department and the
Historical Department.

SPECIAL SERVICE OFFICE—Is located in Building No. 13 and it is here that
a multitude of activities are sponsored for the welfare and
entertainment of the enlisted men and WACS. Also located in the same
building are the Post Chaplain’s Office, Post Broadcasting System,
Public Relations Office and the Personal Affairs Division, which
includes War Bonds, Insurance, Legal Aid, and Army Emergency Relief. It
is through the Person Affairs Division that assistance is provided
military personnel and their dependents in securing employment,
re-employment, education and vocational rehabilitation. Each squadron
has a Special Service Officer who should be contacted by all those
interested in sports, orchestras, glee clubs, acting and other
recreational activities.

SERVICE CLUB—The Service Club is the center of recreation for enlisted
personnel and their guests. It is on Algonquin Avenue between Gate No. 1
and Post Headquarters. The main salon is used for dances, band concerts,
shows, and broadcasts. Included in the club are a cafeteria, snack bar,
and soda fountain, a game room, a balcony which is used for letter
writing and a library with more than 8,000 books. There also is a public
telephone center on the second floor off the balcony with operators in
attendance during the busier hours. Another telephone center with
operators is located in Mess Hall No. 4—Building 845. Guests can be
taken to the Service Club when proper arrangements are made. (See page
24 for pass procedure)

GUEST HOUSE—The Guest House is adjacent to the Service Club and provides
lodging for relatives of enlisted personnel. The charge is 75 cents a
day and there is a three-day limit for guests. For reservations apply at
the Service Club office.

POST THEATRES—There are two large Post theatres each seating more than
1,000 persons. Both run on staggered schedules, so that the men on the
various school shifts may attend. The charge to military personnel is 15
cents per show or $1.20 for a booklet of ten admission tickets. Other
entertainments, such as USO camp shows and personal appearances of movie
and radio stars, are frequently provided. Time schedules and programs
are announced in the Daily Bulletin, the Post newspaper, “The Polar
Tech”, and over the Post Broadcasting System. The theatres are located
in Buildings 73 and 23.

BOATING—The Special Service Office has provided boats on Covell Lake for
Army personnel only, during seasonal weather. This lake is a part of
Terrace Park, located just outside the Hospital Area in the southeast
part of the Post.

BOWLING ALLEYS—Are located in Building No. 847 and are open daily from
0800 to 2200 for the use of all military personnel.

ROLLER SKATING—A large tent roller rink is located just in rear of the
Civilian Personnel Offices outside of Gate No. 2. This is available to
military personnel during the spring, summer, and fall.

SPORTS ARENA AND SPORTS ARENA ANNEX—The Sports Arena provides an
adequate surface of hardwood floor for basketball, boxing, wrestling,
volley ball, and other recreational activities. Lessons are given in
various sports including fencing and boxing. The Sports Arena is in
Building No. 53. The ANNEX is across the street where shuffle board,
table tennis and other games may be played in addition to boxing, weight
lifting and conditioning activities.

SWIMMING POOL—A swimming pool is available in Terrace Park for military
personnel from late spring until early fall.

ATHLETIC FIELDS—Numerous athletic fields, including softball and
baseball diamonds, are located in each squadron area.

POST BROADCASTING SYSTEM—Is located in Building No. 13. It is a complete
broadcast service except that it transmits programs by wire instead of
by wireless. The layout consists of the main studio, control room,
office and many speaker outlets on the Post. Mechanically the system is
flexible to the extent that three entirely different programs may be
carried on simultaneously. The system is affiliated with the NBC and is
directly wired to two local radio stations. News is furnished through
complete Associated Press News Service. The Post Band concerts and
interviews with men returned from overseas are also broadcast.

POST EXCHANGES—The Exchange Service furnishes items of merchandise and
various services needed by soldiers. The largest Exchange is No. 9 in
Building No. 2077. Here you may purchase cigarettes, magazines,
clothing, shoes, novelties, stationery, soft drinks and ice cream, and
may also take your dry cleaning. The Exchange operates several tailor,
dry cleaning and shoe repair shops, barber shops, and a snack bar. These
are located in Buildings No. 80, 1244, 1737, 1902, and 71.

NEWSPAPER—The “Polar Tech” is your own newspaper. It is published once a
week under direction of the Public Relations Office and distributed
without charge. It is written by the men of the camp and contributions
are invited. Copies for mailing can be obtained.

CHAPELS—There are four chapels, two on Elkhorn avenue, one on Blackhawk
avenue, and one in Building 1507 for the use of negro soldiers.
Facilities are provided for religious worship of every denomination. The
chapels are of Colonial design and seat about 350 persons.

RED CROSS HEADQUARTERS—Building 646. The Red Cross assists service men
and women in solving their personal and family problems, including
investigations of sicknesses and deaths before recommending emergency
furloughs, and provides individual counsel and guidance. Feel free to
drop in at any time. There is a Red Cross representative and staff ready
to serve you 24 hours a day.

TECHNICAL SCHOOL—The Technical School is known as the finest radio
school of the Training Command. The school buildings are located in the
center of the squadron areas, row after row from Third to Thirteenth
Street. Office of the Director of Training is in Building 1100.

POST HOSPITAL—The Post Hospital is in the southern part of the field
near Gate No. 3. Adequate facilities are provided for the care of the
Post’s personnel by physicians skilled to handle any form of injury or
illness. Latest scientific devices are in use. The hospital also has a
theatre, barber shop, a post exchange, a library and games for
recreation.

DISPENSARIES AND INFIRMARIES—The first shift has sick call at 1500 and
the second shift at 0900. At the time of publication of this booklet,
there were three dispensaries in operation. Dispensary No. 1 is located
in building No. 1246, No. 2 in Building No. 32 and No. 3 in Building No.
77.

DENTAL CLINIC—There are two dental clinics, one in Building 76 and one
at the station hospital.

BARBER AND TAILOR SHOPS—Buildings No. 80 and 1244.

POST OFFICE—The Post Office is just east of Post Headquarters. All mail
is sent there, sorted and redistributed to Squadron post offices. All
usual postal services are provided. It is important that your friends
and relatives know your complete address, including your rank and
squadron number.

LAUNDRY—Located near Gate No. 2, the Post Laundry serves the entire Post
personnel. Operated by the Quartermaster Corps, it has the best of
equipment and launders each individual’s clothes for $1.50 a month.

BANK—For the convenience of the Army personnel, there is a branch of the
Northwest Security National Bank in the Finance Office, just west of
Post Headquarters on Woeye avenue.

TRANSPORTATION—“Air Base” buses run from downtown Sioux Falls at regular
intervals and stop at convenient locations throughout the field.




                           ABOUT SIOUX FALLS


UNITED SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS—There are three USO Clubs in Sioux Falls
providing various types of recreational facilities for service men. The
Main Avenue USO is at Eleventh Street and Main Avenue. Another is at
Ninth Street and Dakota Avenue across from the City Hall, and a third,
for negroes, is located at 115 North Dakota Avenue.


SERVICE CENTERS

  Masonic                                            210 West Tenth St.
  Knights of Columbus                               315 No. Summit Ave.
  Odd Fellows                                       214 So. Dakota Ave.


HOUSING INFORMATION

  Travelers Aid (For rooms)                             105 E. 11th St.
  A branch of the Travelers’ Aid is in each USO, railroad station and
  bus depot.
  Federal Housing Bureau—Apartments and Houses         115 N. Main Ave.


PUBLIC GOLF COURSES

  Elmwood—18 holes, grass greens                   1400 N. Elmwood Ave.
  West 12th St.—9 holes, sand greens.

PARKS—Sioux Falls’ parks afford varied facilities for picnics, sports
and other entertainment.

  Drake Springs Park—Baseball, swimming                 801 E. 10th St.
  McKennan Park—Playgrounds, picnic grounds,          1400 So. 3rd Ave.
  horseshoes, wading pool, band concerts,
  flower display
  Sherman Park—Picnics, playgrounds, zoo, band         2600 W. 22nd St.
  concerts, lawn bowling
  Terrace Park—Picnics, playgrounds, oriental        600 N. Grange Ave.
  gardens
  Elmwood Park—Picnics, playgrounds                1400 N. Elmwood Ave.
  Library Park—Children’s playground, wading             300 Weber Ave.
  pool
  Howard Wood Field—Baseball, football                  701 E. 10th St.


PUBLIC BUILDINGS

  City Hall                                              230 W. 9th St.
  Court House                                          401 N. Main Ave.
  Coliseum                                             501 N. Main Ave.
  Museum                                             131 N. Duluth Ave.
  Post Office                                       400 S. Philips Ave.
  Library                                            10th & Dakota Ave.


SERVICE CLUB LUNCHEON DATES—12:15 p.m.

                                 MONDAY

  Cooperative Club                                      Shriver-Johnson
                                                       Department Store

                                 TUESDAY

  Lions Club                                             Cataract Hotel

                                WEDNESDAY

  Kiwanis Club                                          Carpenter Hotel
  Cosmopolitan Club                                      Cataract Hotel

                                THURSDAY

  Rotary Club                                            Cataract Hotel
  Altrusa Club                                          Shriver-Johnson
                                                       Department Store

                                 FRIDAY

  Junior Chamber of Commerce                            100 W. 10th St.
  Chamber of Commerce                                   100 W. 10th St.
  Monthly membership meetings (usually) first Monday noon each month.

                            RAILROAD STATIONS

  Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul                    501 N. Phillips Ave.
  Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific                         200 S. 1st St.
  Chicago, St. Paul & Omaha                              421 E. 8th St.
  Great Northern                                         503 E. 8th St.
  Illinois Central                                       304 E. 8th St.
  BUS STATION                                          236 S. Main Ave.

CHURCHES—Persons in armed services are welcome at all Sioux Falls
churches and special hospitality is extended to them.

  Augustana Lutheran Church                         235 N. Prairie Ave.
  Beulah Baptist Church                             2000 Northwest Ave.
  Calvary Cathedral Episcopal Church                    113 W. 13th St.
  Central Baptist Church                             406 S. Dakota Ave.
  Christian Reformed Church                          334 N. Spring Ave.
  Church of God                                  S. Cliff Ave. SE. Cor.
                                                             E. 9th St.
  Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints       2124 S. Duluth Ave.
  Church of the Nazarene                              212 S. Walts Ave.
  East Side Lutheran Church                           222 N. Cliff Ave.
  East Side Presbyterian Church                     326 N. Fairfax Ave.
  Emmanuel Baptist Church                               1224 E. 2nd St.
  Evangelical Free Methodist Church               412 S. Hawthorne Ave.
  Faith Lutheran Mission                              601 N. Cliff Ave.
  First Baptist Church                               127 N. Spring Ave.
  First Christian Church                                524 W. 13th St.
  First Church of Christ Scientist                520 S. Minnesota Ave.
  First Congregational Church                        303 S. Dakota Ave.
  First Evangelical Church                       1405 S. Minnesota Ave.
  First Free Methodist Church                           600 S. 4th Ave.
  First Lutheran Church                              327 S. Dakota Ave.
  First Methodist Church                             401 S. Spring Ave.
  First Presbyterian Church                          132 S. Spring Ave.
  Gospel Tabernacle                                     112 E. 13th St.
  Little Flower of Jesus Catholic Church              204 N. Cliff Ave.
  Mt. Zion Jewish Congregation                          523 W. 14th St.
  North End Union Church                             324 W. Bennett St.
  Open Bible Church                                   121½ S. Main Ave.
  Order of Ahepa                                        514 S. 1st Ave.
  Parish Hall                                         210 N. Cliff Ave.
  Pilgrim Baptist Church                            501 N. Fairfax Ave.
  Reformed Church of America                      236 S. Minnesota Ave.
  Riverside Community Church                       1512 E. Mulberry St.
  St. John’s Baptist Church (Negro)               320 N. Minnesota Ave.
  St. Joseph’s Cathedral (Catholic)                  501 N. Duluth Ave.
  St. Peter’s Episcopal Church                        336 N. Cliff Ave.
  Salvation Army                                  102 N. Minnesota Ave.
  Seventh Day Adventist Church                       514 S. Duluth Ave.
  Sons of Israel Congregation                        610 S. Dakota Ave.
  Sunnyside Full Gospel Church                   2005 S. Minnesota Ave.
  Union Gospel Mission                                   227 W. 9th St.
  Volunteers of America                              217 S. Dakota Ave.
  Welcome Gospel Tabernacle                        408 N. Blauvelt Ave.
  Wesley Methodist Church                           320 N. Van Eps Ave.
  Zion Lutheran Church                            601 S. Minnesota Ave.

    [Illustration: Technical School
    Sioux Falls Army Air Field
    MAP OF SIOUX FALLS
    SOUTH DAKOTA]

  POINTS OF INTEREST
  1. City Hall
  2. Court House
  3. Coliseum
  4. Museum
  5. Post Office
  6. Library
  7. C. M. & St. P. Station
  8. C. R. I. & P. Station
  9. C. St. P. & O. Station
  10. Great Northern Station
  11. Illinois Central Station
  12. Bus Station
  13. Main Avenue USO
  14. Dakota Avenue USO
  15. USO (Colored)
  16. Masonic Service Center
  17. K. C. Service Center
  18. Odd Fellows Service Center
  19. Drake Springs Park
  20. McKennan Park
  21. Sherman Park
  22. Terrace Park
  23. Elmwood Park
  24. Library Park
  25. Howard Wood Stadium
  26. The Falls
  27. State School for Deaf




                         YOUR TELEPHONE SERVICE


TELEPHONE CENTERS—Camp telephone centers are located off the balcony of
the Service Club and in Building No. 845. In these centers, skilled
telephone operators are on duty during rush hours to help you with your
calls. These operators will take your calls, make change, and help you
in looking up telephone numbers. This assistance will be of special
advantage to you in making calls to faraway places. The same service is
also offered at the Main Avenue USO.

    [Illustration: {Telephone Operator}]

At all three centers, a file of telephone directories is maintained for
reference. Lounge facilities are provided and information is furnished
regarding bus and railroad schedules, sports, shows, dances and other
like events.

    [Illustration: PUBLIC TELEPHONE]

LOOK FOR THE BLUE BELL SIGN—Other public telephones are in day rooms,
mailrooms, orderly rooms and other convenient locations ... marked by
the familiar Blue Bell sign.




                      TO MAKE A LONG DISTANCE CALL


    [Illustration: {public telephone}]

Every effort is being made to provide the best possible service on your
calls but many long distance lines are so heavily loaded with calls that
we may not be able to get them through promptly, especially during the
busiest hours. Moreover, more lines to meet increased needs can’t be
added now because the materials it would take must go to make war
weapons and munitions.

The following information is furnished to help you place your calls and
get them through as quickly as possible. Whenever you call, you can be
sure that we will do everything we can to get your call through.

STATION-TO-STATION CALLS—When you will talk with anyone available at the
telephone you call, please give the operator the desired place and
number (if you have it), for example. “Acton, Illinois, Main 2324.”

You can find telephone numbers of persons in many cities and towns in
the out-of-town directories in the Telephone Centers. If the directory
you want is not there and you do not have the number, give the operator
the name and address and tell her you will talk with anyone at the
telephone there.

PERSON-TO-PERSON CALLS—When you want to reach a certain person, please
give the operator the desired place, the number if you have it, or can
obtain it from out-of-town directories available, and the name of the
person wanted, as “Acton, Illinois, Main 2324, Mrs. E. R. White.”

MAKE SURE OF RATE BEFORE CALLING—When making a long distance call from a
public telephone, it helps to know what the rate is and to have the
necessary change ready. Attendants at the telephone centers will give
you information about long distance rates, assist you in placing calls,
and collect charges. From other public telephones, you can get the rate
by asking the long distance operator. Also, there’s a list of rates to
representative cities in the United States on the inside back cover of
this handbook.

COLLECT CALLS—If you wish to make a call collect, tell the operator when
you place the call and she will determine whether the charges will be
accepted at the called telephone.

REDUCED NIGHT AND SUNDAY RATES—Every night from 6 p.m. to 4:30 a.m. and
all day every Sunday, rates on long distance calls over distances of
about 50 miles or more are lower than regular week-day rates.

PLAN YOUR CALLS AHEAD—To make sure you remember all the things you wish
to talk about—and to save time and money—jot down the items you intend
to mention. If you wish to spend only a certain amount on a call, ask in
advance how many minutes it will pay for and limit your conversation to
that time.

REMAIN NEAR TELEPHONE—After you have placed your call, if it cannot be
completed at once, please stay nearby so you can be located quickly.

PLEASE BE BRIEF—Give the other fellow a break. All over the country, men
in service are placing long distance calls. If conversations are brief,
more men can get their calls through.

DON’T LOSE YOUR NICKEL—Public telephones here are operated on a
“post-payment” basis; that is, the coin is not deposited until after the
operator completes the connection for you. Give the operator the number
first, and do not insert the coin until she asks you to.

CALLS TO ORDERLY ROOMS—To call a squadron orderly room from off the
Post, ask the Sioux Falls information operator for the number of the
public telephone there and call that number, as use of Post telephones
in orderly rooms is restricted.

TELEPHONE CALLS FOR YOU—If you expect relatives or friends to call you,
please make sure that they have your complete mailing address, including
your barracks building number, the telephone number at which you can be
reached, and any other information which will be helpful in reaching
you. Generally, however, it works best if you place the call instead of
having them call you because changes in the schedules of camp life often
make it difficult to get in touch with you promptly when attempting to
complete a call to you.

TELEGRAMS—To send a telegram over a telephone, just call “Western
Union”, give the message to be sent and deposit the telegraph charges in
the coin box as requested.




                               ADDRESSES


  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.

  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.

  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.

  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.

  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.

  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.

  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.

  Name
  Address
  Tel. No.


              Please Be Brief—Give Others a Chance to Call




                                 NOTES


VISITOR’S PASS PROCEDURE—The issuance of passes to visitors is under the
direction of the Provost Marshal who maintains a Pass House for this
purpose at Gate No. 2 (Soldier’s Gate). If possible, the soldier and
visitor must be present at the Pass House when the pass is issued.
However, if it is impossible for the soldier to be present he can make
arrangements with one of the Service Club hostesses to get a pass for
his visitor. The pass must be retained by the visitor and returned to
the Pass House at the completion of his visit, after being signed by one
of the Service Club hostesses.

Persons desiring to stay at the Guest House are issued a three-day pass
upon request of a Service Club Hostess. This pass is also returned to
Pass House upon completion of visit.

    [Illustration: Logo]

The following charges are for three minutes, including tax, on
Station-to-Station calls from Sioux Falls between 6 p.m. and 4:30 a.m.
or on Sunday. Rates for Person-to-Person calls and Day
Station-to-Station calls are somewhat higher.

Rates and taxes are those in effect May 1, 1944

                                                               Inc. Tax
  Albuquerque, N. M.                                              $1.69
  Augusta, Me.                                                     2.44
  Atlanta, Ga.                                                     1.81
  Baltimore, Md.                                                   2.00
  Biloxi, Miss.                                                    1.94
  Birmingham, Ala.                                                 1.75
  Bismarck, N. D.                                                   .81
  Boise, Ida.                                                      1.94
  Boston, Mass.                                                    2.31
  Carson City, Nev.                                                2.31
  Charleston, S. C.                                                2.19
  Charleston, W. V.                                                1.75
  Chattanooga, Tenn.                                               1.69
  Cheyenne, Wyo.                                                   1.13
  Chicago, Ill.                                                    1.13
  Cleveland, Ohio                                                  1.63
  Dallas, Tex.                                                     1.56
  Denver, Colo.                                                    1.19
  Des Moines, Ia.                                                   .63
  Detroit, Mich.                                                   1.56
  Hartford, Conn.                                                  2.25
  Helena, Mont.                                                    1.69
  Houston, Tex.                                                    1.81
  Indianapolis, Ind.                                               1.44
  Jackson, Miss.                                                   1.75
  Jacksonville, Fla.                                               2.25
  Kansas City, Mo.                                                  .88
  Little Rock, Ark.                                                1.44
  Los Angeles, Calif.                                              2.44
  Louisville, Ky.                                                  1.50
  Madison, Wis.                                                     .94
  Miami, Fla.                                                      2.81
  Minneapolis, Minn.                                                .63
  New Orleans, La.                                                 1.94
  New York, N. Y.                                                  2.19
  Oklahoma City, Okla.                                             1.31
  Omaha, Nebr.                                                      .56
  Phoenix, Ariz.                                                   2.06
  Pittsburgh, Pa.                                                  1.75
  Raleigh, N. C.                                                   2.06
  San Francisco, Calif.                                            2.50
  Salt Lake City, Utah                                             1.75
  Santa Fe, N. M.                                                  1.58
  Seattle, Wash.                                                   2.31
  Spokane, Wash.                                                   2.00
  St. Louis, Mo.                                                   1.19
  Trenton, N. J.                                                   2.19
  Wichita, Kansas                                                  1.00


                    NORTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.
                          BELL SYSTEM SERVICE

    [Illustration: Logos]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Technical School, Sioux Falls Army Air
Field, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TECH. SCHOOL, SIOUX FALLS ARMY AIR FIELD ***

***** This file should be named 61030-0.txt or 61030-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/0/3/61030/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Kenneth R. Black and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

